<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# terraform-azurerm-avm-template

This is a template repo for Terraform Azure Verified Modules.

Things to do:

1. Set up a GitHub repo environment called `test`.
1. Configure environment protection rule to ensure that approval is required before deploying to this environment.
1. Create a user-assigned managed identity in your test subscription.
1. Create a role assignment for the managed identity on your test subscription, use the minimum required role.
1. Configure federated identity credentials on the user assigned managed identity. Use the GitHub environment.
1. Search and update TODOs within the code and remove the TODO comments once complete.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As the overall AVM framework is not GA (generally available) yet - the CI framework and test automation is not fully functional and implemented across all supported languages yet - breaking changes are expected, and additional customer feedback is yet to be gathered and incorporated. Hence, modules **MUST NOT** be published at version `1.0.0` or higher at this time.
>
> All module **MUST** be published as a pre-release version (e.g., `0.1.0`, `0.1.1`, `0.2.0`, etc.) until the AVM framework becomes GA.
>
> However, it is important to note that this **DOES NOT** mean that the modules cannot be consumed and utilized. They **CAN** be leveraged in all types of environments (dev, test, prod etc.). Consumers can treat them just like any other IaC module and raise issues or feature requests against them as they learn from the usage of the module. Consumers should also read the release notes for each version, if considering updating to a more recent version of a module to see if there are any considerations or breaking changes etc.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (~> 1.12)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.4)

- <a name="requirement_azurerm"></a> [azurerm](#requirement\_azurerm) (>= 4.46.0, < 5.0.0)

- <a name="requirement_modtm"></a> [modtm](#requirement\_modtm) (~> 0.3)

- <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) (>= 3.5.0, < 4.0.0)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource_action.this_admin_kubeconfig](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource_action) (resource)
- [azapi_resource_action.this_user_kubeconfig](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource_action) (resource)
- [azurerm_management_lock.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/management_lock) (resource)
- [azurerm_monitor_diagnostic_setting.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_diagnostic_setting) (resource)
- [azurerm_private_endpoint.this_managed_dns_zone_groups](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoint) (resource)
- [azurerm_private_endpoint.this_unmanaged_dns_zone_groups](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoint) (resource)
- [azurerm_private_endpoint_application_security_group_association.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoint_application_security_group_association) (resource)
- [azurerm_role_assignment.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/role_assignment) (resource)
- [modtm_telemetry.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/resources/telemetry) (resource)
- [random_string.dns_prefix](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/string) (resource)
- [random_uuid.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/uuid) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [modtm_module_source.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/data-sources/module_source) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region where the resource should be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of this resource.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_parent_id"></a> [parent\_id](#input\_parent\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the parent resource.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_advanced_networking"></a> [advanced\_networking](#input\_advanced\_networking)

Description: Advanced networking feature toggles: observability, and security sub-features.

## Security

This allows users to configure Layer 7 network policies (FQDN, HTTP, Kafka).  
Policies themselves must be configured via the Cilium Network Policy resources,  
see <https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/security/policy/index.html>.  
This can be enabled only on cilium-based clusters.  
If not specified, the default value is FQDN if `security.enabled` is set to true.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enabled = optional(bool, false)
    observability = optional(object({
      enabled = optional(bool, false)
    }), null)
    security = optional(object({
      advanced_network_policies = optional(string, "FQDN")
      enabled                   = optional(bool, false)
    }), null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_agent_pools"></a> [agent\_pools](#input\_agent\_pools)

Description: Map of instances for the submodule with the following attributes:

**kubelet\_config**  
Kubelet configurations of agent nodes. See [AKS custom node configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/custom-node-configuration) for more details.

- `allowed_unsafe_sysctls` - Allowed list of unsafe sysctls or unsafe sysctl patterns (ending in `*`).
- `container_log_max_files` - The maximum number of container log files that can be present for a container. The number must be ≥ 2.
- `container_log_max_size_mb` - The maximum size (e.g. 10Mi) of container log file before it is rotated.
- `cpu_cfs_quota` - If CPU CFS quota enforcement is enabled for containers that specify CPU limits. The default is true.
- `cpu_cfs_quota_period` - The CPU CFS quota period value. The default is '100ms.' Valid values are a sequence of decimal numbers with an optional fraction and a unit suffix. For example: '300ms', '2h45m'. Supported units are 'ns', 'us', 'ms', 's', 'm', and 'h'.
- `cpu_manager_policy` - The CPU Manager policy to use. The default is 'none'. See [Kubernetes CPU management policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/#cpu-management-policies) for more information. Allowed values are 'none' and 'static'.
- `fail_swap_on` - If set to true it will make the Kubelet fail to start if swap is enabled on the node.
- `image_gc_high_threshold` - The percent of disk usage after which image garbage collection is always run. To disable image garbage collection, set to 100. The default is 85%
- `image_gc_low_threshold` - The percent of disk usage before which image garbage collection is never run. This cannot be set higher than imageGcHighThreshold. The default is 80%
- `pod_max_pids` - The maximum number of processes per pod.
- `topology_manager_policy` - The Topology Manager policy to use. For more information see [Kubernetes Topology Manager](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/topology-manager). The default is 'none'. Allowed values are 'none', 'best-effort', 'restricted', and 'single-numa-node'.

**os\_sku**  
Specifies the OS SKU used by the agent pool. The default is Ubuntu if OSType is Linux. The default is Windows2019 when Kubernetes <= 1.24 or Windows2022 when Kubernetes >= 1.25 if OSType is Windows.

**upgrade\_settings**  
Settings for upgrading an agentpool

- `drain_timeout_in_minutes` - The drain timeout for a node. The amount of time (in minutes) to wait on eviction of pods and graceful termination per node. This eviction wait time honors waiting on pod disruption budgets. If this time is exceeded, the upgrade fails. If not specified, the default is 30 minutes.
- `max_surge` - The maximum number or percentage of nodes that are surged during upgrade. This can either be set to an integer (e.g. '5') or a percentage (e.g. '50%'). If a percentage is specified, it is the percentage of the total agent pool size at the time of the upgrade. For percentages, fractional nodes are rounded up. If not specified, the default is 10%. For more information, including best practices, see: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-cluster
- `max_unavailable` - The maximum number or percentage of nodes that can be simultaneously unavailable during upgrade. This can either be set to an integer (e.g. '1') or a percentage (e.g. '5%'). If a percentage is specified, it is the percentage of the total agent pool size at the time of the upgrade. For percentages, fractional nodes are rounded up. If not specified, the default is 0. For more information, including best practices, see: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-cluster
- `node_soak_duration_in_minutes` - The soak duration for a node. The amount of time (in minutes) to wait after draining a node and before reimaging it and moving on to next node. If not specified, the default is 0 minutes.
- `undrainable_node_behavior` - Defines the behavior for undrainable nodes during upgrade. The most common cause of undrainable nodes is Pod Disruption Budgets (PDBs), but other issues, such as pod termination grace period is exceeding the remaining per-node drain timeout or pod is still being in a running state, can also cause undrainable nodes.

**virtual\_machines\_profile**  
Specifications on VirtualMachines agent pool.

- `scale` - Specifications on how to scale a VirtualMachines agent pool.
  - `manual` - Specifications on how to scale the VirtualMachines agent pool to a fixed size.

**vm\_size**  
The size of the agent pool VMs. VM size availability varies by region. If a node contains insufficient compute resources (memory, cpu, etc) pods might fail to run correctly. For more details on restricted VM sizes, see: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/quotas-skus-regions

**node\_public\_ip\_prefix\_id**  
The public IP prefix ID which VM nodes should use IPs from. This is of the form: /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Network/publicIPPrefixes/{publicIPPrefixName}

**enable\_node\_public\_ip**  
Whether each node is allocated its own public IP. Some scenarios may require nodes in a node pool to receive their own dedicated public IP addresses. A common scenario is for gaming workloads, where a console needs to make a direct connection to a cloud virtual machine to minimize hops. For more information see [assigning a public IP per node](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-multiple-node-pools#assign-a-public-ip-per-node-for-your-node-pools). The default is false.

**node\_taints**  
The taints added to new nodes during node pool create and scale. For example, key=value:NoSchedule.

**orchestrator\_version**  
The version of Kubernetes specified by the user. Both patch version <major.minor.patch> (e.g. 1.20.13) and <major.minor> (e.g. 1.20) are supported. When <major.minor> is specified, the latest supported GA patch version is chosen automatically. Updating the cluster with the same <major.minor> once it has been created (e.g. 1.14.x -> 1.14) will not trigger an upgrade, even if a newer patch version is available. As a best practice, you should upgrade all node pools in an AKS cluster to the same Kubernetes version. The node pool version must have the same major version as the control plane. The node pool minor version must be within two minor versions of the control plane version. The node pool version cannot be greater than the control plane version. For more information see [upgrading a node pool](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-multiple-node-pools#upgrade-a-node-pool).

**pod\_ip\_allocation\_mode**  
Pod IP Allocation Mode. The IP allocation mode for pods in the agent pool. Must be used with podSubnetId. The default is 'DynamicIndividual'.

**scale\_down\_mode**  
Describes how VMs are added to or removed from Agent Pools. See [billing states](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/states-billing).

**type**  
The type of Agent Pool.

**workload\_runtime**  
Determines the type of workload a node can run.

**enable\_ultra\_ssd**  
Whether to enable UltraSSD

**security\_profile**  
The security settings of an agent pool.

- `enable_secure_boot` - Secure Boot is a feature of Trusted Launch which ensures that only signed operating systems and drivers can boot. For more details, see aka.ms/aks/trustedlaunch.  If not specified, the default is false.
- `enable_vtpm` - vTPM is a Trusted Launch feature for configuring a dedicated secure vault for keys and measurements held locally on the node. For more details, see aka.ms/aks/trustedlaunch. If not specified, the default is false.
- `ssh_access` - SSH access method of an agent pool.

**status**  
Contains read-only information about the Agent Pool.

**vnet\_subnet\_id**  
The ID of the subnet which agent pool nodes and optionally pods will join on startup. If this is not specified, a VNET and subnet will be generated and used. If no podSubnetID is specified, this applies to nodes and pods, otherwise it applies to just nodes. This is of the form: /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/{virtualNetworkName}/subnets/{subnetName}

**host\_group\_id**  
The fully qualified resource ID of the Dedicated Host Group to provision virtual machines from, used only in creation scenario and not allowed to changed once set. This is of the form: /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Compute/hostGroups/{hostGroupName}. For more information see [Azure dedicated hosts](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/dedicated-hosts).

**message\_of\_the\_day**  
Message of the day for Linux nodes, base64-encoded. A base64-encoded string which will be written to /etc/motd after decoding. This allows customization of the message of the day for Linux nodes. It must not be specified for Windows nodes. It must be a static string (i.e., will be printed raw and not be executed as a script).

**name**  
The name of the resource.

**linux\_os\_config**  
OS configurations of Linux agent nodes. See [AKS custom node configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/custom-node-configuration) for more details.

- `swap_file_size_mb` - The size in MB of a swap file that will be created on each node.
- `sysctls` - Sysctl settings for Linux agent nodes.
  - `fs_aio_max_nr` - Sysctl setting fs.aio-max-nr.
  - `fs_file_max` - Sysctl setting fs.file-max.
  - `fs_inotify_max_user_watches` - Sysctl setting fs.inotify.max\_user\_watches.
  - `fs_nr_open` - Sysctl setting fs.nr\_open.
  - `kernel_threads_max` - Sysctl setting kernel.threads-max.
  - `net_core_netdev_max_backlog` - Sysctl setting net.core.netdev\_max\_backlog.
  - `net_core_optmem_max` - Sysctl setting net.core.optmem\_max.
  - `net_core_rmem_default` - Sysctl setting net.core.rmem\_default.
  - `net_core_rmem_max` - Sysctl setting net.core.rmem\_max.
  - `net_core_somaxconn` - Sysctl setting net.core.somaxconn.
  - `net_core_wmem_default` - Sysctl setting net.core.wmem\_default.
  - `net_core_wmem_max` - Sysctl setting net.core.wmem\_max.
  - `net_ipv4_ip_local_port_range` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.ip\_local\_port\_range.
  - `net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh1` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.neigh.default.gc\_thresh1.
  - `net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh2` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.neigh.default.gc\_thresh2.
  - `net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh3` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.neigh.default.gc\_thresh3.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_fin_timeout` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_fin\_timeout.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_probes` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_keepalive\_probes.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_time` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_keepalive\_time.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_max_syn_backlog` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_max\_syn\_backlog.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_max_tw_buckets` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_max\_tw\_buckets.
  - `net_ipv4_tcp_tw_reuse` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_tw\_reuse.
  - `net_ipv4_tcpkeepalive_intvl` - Sysctl setting net.ipv4.tcp\_keepalive\_intvl.
  - `net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_buckets` - Sysctl setting net.netfilter.nf\_conntrack\_buckets.
  - `net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_max` - Sysctl setting net.netfilter.nf\_conntrack\_max.
  - `vm_max_map_count` - Sysctl setting vm.max\_map\_count.
  - `vm_swappiness` - Sysctl setting vm.swappiness.
  - `vm_vfs_cache_pressure` - Sysctl setting vm.vfs\_cache\_pressure.
- `transparent_huge_page_defrag` - Whether the kernel should make aggressive use of memory compaction to make more hugepages available. Valid values are 'always', 'defer', 'defer+madvise', 'madvise' and 'never'. The default is 'madvise'. For more information see [Transparent Hugepages](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/mm/transhuge.html#admin-guide-transhuge).
- `transparent_huge_page_enabled` - Whether transparent hugepages are enabled. Valid values are 'always', 'madvise', and 'never'. The default is 'always'. For more information see [Transparent Hugepages](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/mm/transhuge.html#admin-guide-transhuge).

**min\_count**  
The minimum number of nodes for auto-scaling

**os\_disk\_size\_gb**  
OS Disk Size in GB to be used to specify the disk size for every machine in the master/agent pool. If you specify 0, it will apply the default osDisk size according to the vmSize specified.

**windows\_profile**  
The Windows agent pool's specific profile.

- `disable_outbound_nat` - Whether to disable OutboundNAT in windows nodes. The default value is false. Outbound NAT can only be disabled if the cluster outboundType is NAT Gateway and the Windows agent pool does not have node public IP enabled.

**count\_of**  
Number of agents (VMs) to host docker containers. Allowed values must be in the range of 0 to 1000 (inclusive) for user pools and in the range of 1 to 1000 (inclusive) for system pools. The default valueis 1.

**enable\_auto\_scaling**  
Whether to enable auto-scaler

**gpu\_instance\_profile**  
GPUInstanceProfile to be used to specify GPU MIG instance profile for supported GPU VM SKU.

**kubelet\_disk\_type**  
Determines the placement of emptyDir volumes, container runtime data root, and Kubelet ephemeral storage.

**local\_dns\_profile**  
Configures the per-node local DNS, with VnetDNS and KubeDNS overrides. LocalDNS helps improve performance and reliability of DNS resolution in an AKS cluster. For more details see aka.ms/aks/localdns.

- `kube_dns_overrides` - LocalDNSOverrides is a map of zone names for Vnet and Kube DNS overrides.
- `mode` - Mode of enablement for localDNS.
- `vnet_dns_overrides` - LocalDNSOverrides is a map of zone names for Vnet and Kube DNS overrides.

**max\_count**  
The maximum number of nodes for auto-scaling

**max\_pods**  
The maximum number of pods that can run on a node.

**os\_type**  
The operating system type. The default is Linux.

**capacity\_reservation\_group\_id**  
The fully qualified resource ID of the Capacity Reservation Group to provide virtual machines from a reserved group of Virtual Machines. This is of the form: '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Compute/capacityreservationgroups/{capacityReservationGroupName}' Customers use it to create an agentpool with a specified CRG. For more information see [Capacity Reservation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/capacity-reservation-overview)

**creation\_data**  
Data used when creating a target resource from a source resource.

- `source_resource_id` - This is the ARM ID of the source object to be used to create the target object.

**gateway\_profile**  
Profile of the managed cluster gateway agent pool.

- `public_ip_prefix_size` - The Gateway agent pool associates one public IPPrefix for each static egress gateway to provide public egress. The size of Public IPPrefix should be selected by the user. Each node in the agent pool is assigned with one IP from the IPPrefix. The IPPrefix size thus serves as a cap on the size of the Gateway agent pool. Due to Azure public IPPrefix size limitation, the valid value range is [28, 31] (/31 = 2 nodes/IPs, /30 = 4 nodes/IPs, /29 = 8 nodes/IPs, /28 = 16 nodes/IPs). The default value is 31.

**node\_labels**  
The node labels to be persisted across all nodes in agent pool.

**os\_disk\_type**  
The OS disk type to be used for machines in the agent pool. The default is 'Ephemeral' if the VM supports it and has a cache disk larger than the requested OSDiskSizeGB. Otherwise, defaults to 'Managed'. May not be changed after creation. For more information see [Ephemeral OS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/cluster-configuration#ephemeral-os).

**proximity\_placement\_group\_id**  
The ID for Proximity Placement Group.

**scale\_set\_eviction\_policy**  
The Virtual Machine Scale Set eviction policy. The eviction policy specifies what to do with the VM when it is evicted. The default is Delete. For more information about eviction see [spot VMs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/spot-vms)

**tags**  
The tags to be persisted on the agent pool virtual machine scale set.

**output\_data\_only**  
Whether to disable creation of the resource and only output a the resource's body properties.

**enable\_encryption\_at\_host**  
Whether to enable host based OS and data drive encryption. This is only supported on certain VM sizes and in certain Azure regions. For more information, see: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/enable-host-encryption

**gpu\_profile**  
GPU settings for the Agent Pool.

- `driver` - Whether to install GPU drivers. When it's not specified, default is Install.

**mode**  
The mode of an agent pool. A cluster must have at least one 'System' Agent Pool at all times. For additional information on agent pool restrictions and best practices, see: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-system-pools

**network\_profile**  
Network settings of an agent pool.

- `allowed_host_ports` - The port ranges that are allowed to access. The specified ranges are allowed to overlap.
- `application_security_groups` - The IDs of the application security groups which agent pool will associate when created.
- `node_public_ip_tags` - The list of tags associated with the node public IP address.

**pod\_subnet\_id**  
The ID of the subnet which pods will join when launched. If omitted, pod IPs are statically assigned on the node subnet (see vnetSubnetID for more details). This is of the form: /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/{virtualNetworkName}/subnets/{subnetName}

**scale\_set\_priority**  
The Virtual Machine Scale Set priority.

**spot\_max\_price**  
The max price (in US Dollars) you are willing to pay for spot instances. Possible values are any decimal value greater than zero or -1 which indicates default price to be up-to on-demand. Possible values are any decimal value greater than zero or -1 which indicates the willingness to pay any on-demand price. For more details on spot pricing, see [spot VMs pricing](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/spot-vms#pricing)

**availability\_zones**  
The list of Availability zones to use for nodes. This can only be specified if the AgentPoolType property is 'VirtualMachineScaleSets'.

**enable\_fips**  
Whether to use a FIPS-enabled OS. See [Add a FIPS-enabled node pool](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-multiple-node-pools#add-a-fips-enabled-node-pool-preview) for more details.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    availability_zones            = optional(list(string))
    capacity_reservation_group_id = optional(string)
    count_of                      = optional(number)
    creation_data = optional(object({
      source_resource_id = optional(string)
    }))
    enable_auto_scaling       = optional(bool)
    enable_encryption_at_host = optional(bool)
    enable_fips               = optional(bool)
    enable_node_public_ip     = optional(bool)
    enable_ultra_ssd          = optional(bool)
    gateway_profile = optional(object({
      public_ip_prefix_size = optional(number)
    }))
    gpu_instance_profile = optional(string)
    gpu_profile = optional(object({
      driver = optional(string)
    }))
    host_group_id = optional(string)
    kubelet_config = optional(object({
      allowed_unsafe_sysctls    = optional(list(string))
      container_log_max_files   = optional(number)
      container_log_max_size_mb = optional(number)
      cpu_cfs_quota             = optional(bool)
      cpu_cfs_quota_period      = optional(string)
      cpu_manager_policy        = optional(string)
      fail_swap_on              = optional(bool)
      image_gc_high_threshold   = optional(number)
      image_gc_low_threshold    = optional(number)
      pod_max_pids              = optional(number)
      topology_manager_policy   = optional(string)
    }))
    kubelet_disk_type = optional(string)
    linux_os_config = optional(object({
      swap_file_size_mb = optional(number)
      sysctls = optional(object({
        fs_aio_max_nr                      = optional(number)
        fs_file_max                        = optional(number)
        fs_inotify_max_user_watches        = optional(number)
        fs_nr_open                         = optional(number)
        kernel_threads_max                 = optional(number)
        net_core_netdev_max_backlog        = optional(number)
        net_core_optmem_max                = optional(number)
        net_core_rmem_default              = optional(number)
        net_core_rmem_max                  = optional(number)
        net_core_somaxconn                 = optional(number)
        net_core_wmem_default              = optional(number)
        net_core_wmem_max                  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_ip_local_port_range       = optional(string)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh1  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh2  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh3  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_fin_timeout           = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_probes      = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_time        = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_max_syn_backlog       = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_max_tw_buckets        = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_tw_reuse              = optional(bool)
        net_ipv4_tcpkeepalive_intvl        = optional(number)
        net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_buckets = optional(number)
        net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_max     = optional(number)
        vm_max_map_count                   = optional(number)
        vm_swappiness                      = optional(number)
        vm_vfs_cache_pressure              = optional(number)
      }))
      transparent_huge_page_defrag  = optional(string)
      transparent_huge_page_enabled = optional(string)
    }))
    local_dns_profile = optional(object({
      kube_dns_overrides = optional(map(object({
        cache_duration_in_seconds       = optional(number)
        forward_destination             = optional(string)
        forward_policy                  = optional(string)
        max_concurrent                  = optional(number)
        protocol                        = optional(string)
        query_logging                   = optional(string)
        serve_stale                     = optional(string)
        serve_stale_duration_in_seconds = optional(number)
      })))
      mode = optional(string)
      vnet_dns_overrides = optional(map(object({
        cache_duration_in_seconds       = optional(number)
        forward_destination             = optional(string)
        forward_policy                  = optional(string)
        max_concurrent                  = optional(number)
        protocol                        = optional(string)
        query_logging                   = optional(string)
        serve_stale                     = optional(string)
        serve_stale_duration_in_seconds = optional(number)
      })))
    }))
    max_count          = optional(number)
    max_pods           = optional(number)
    message_of_the_day = optional(string)
    min_count          = optional(number)
    mode               = optional(string)
    name               = string
    network_profile = optional(object({
      allowed_host_ports = optional(list(object({
        port_end   = optional(number)
        port_start = optional(number)
        protocol   = optional(string)
      })))
      application_security_groups = optional(list(string))
      node_public_ip_tags = optional(list(object({
        ip_tag_type = optional(string)
        tag         = optional(string)
      })))
    }))
    node_labels                  = optional(map(string))
    node_public_ip_prefix_id     = optional(string)
    node_taints                  = optional(list(string))
    orchestrator_version         = optional(string)
    os_disk_size_gb              = optional(number)
    os_disk_type                 = optional(string)
    os_sku                       = optional(string)
    os_type                      = optional(string)
    output_data_only             = optional(bool)
    pod_ip_allocation_mode       = optional(string)
    pod_subnet_id                = optional(string)
    proximity_placement_group_id = optional(string)
    scale_down_mode              = optional(string)
    scale_set_eviction_policy    = optional(string)
    scale_set_priority           = optional(string)
    security_profile = optional(object({
      enable_secure_boot = optional(bool)
      enable_vtpm        = optional(bool)
      ssh_access         = optional(string)
    }))
    spot_max_price = optional(number)
    tags           = optional(map(string))
    type           = optional(string)
    upgrade_settings = optional(object({
      drain_timeout_in_minutes      = optional(number)
      max_surge                     = optional(string)
      max_unavailable               = optional(string)
      node_soak_duration_in_minutes = optional(number)
      undrainable_node_behavior     = optional(string)
    }))
    virtual_machines_profile = optional(object({
      scale = optional(object({
        manual = optional(list(object({
          count = optional(number)
          size  = optional(string)
        })))
      }))
    }))
    vm_size        = optional(string)
    vnet_subnet_id = optional(string)
    windows_profile = optional(object({
      disable_outbound_nat = optional(bool)
    }))
    workload_runtime = optional(string)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_agentpool_timeouts"></a> [agentpool\_timeouts](#input\_agentpool\_timeouts)

Description: - `create` - (Defaults to 60 minutes) Used when creating the Kubernetes Cluster Node Pool.
- `delete` - (Defaults to 60 minutes) Used when deleting the Kubernetes Cluster Node Pool.
- `read` - (Defaults to 5 minutes) Used when retrieving the Kubernetes Cluster Node Pool.
- `update` - (Defaults to 60 minutes) Used when updating the Kubernetes Cluster Node Pool.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    create = optional(string)
    delete = optional(string)
    read   = optional(string)
    update = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_alert_email"></a> [alert\_email](#input\_alert\_email)

Description: The email address to send alerts to.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_api_server_access_profile"></a> [api\_server\_access\_profile](#input\_api\_server\_access\_profile)

Description: - `authorized_ip_ranges` - (Optional) Set of authorized IP ranges to allow access to API server, e.g. ["198.51.100.0/24"].
- `vnet_subnet_id` - (Optional) The subnet ID for the API server.
- `enable_private_cluster` - (Optional) Whether to enable private cluster.
- `private_dns_zone_id` - (Optional) The private DNS zone ID for the API server. Required if `enable_private_cluster`

Type:

```hcl
object({
    authorized_ip_ranges               = optional(list(string))
    subnet_id                          = optional(string)
    enable_vnet_integration            = optional(bool)
    enable_private_cluster             = optional(bool)
    enable_private_cluster_public_fqdn = optional(bool)
    private_dns_zone_id                = optional(string)
    run_command_enabled                = optional(bool)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_auto_scaler_profile"></a> [auto\_scaler\_profile](#input\_auto\_scaler\_profile)

Description: The auto scaler profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    balance_similar_node_groups                   = optional(string)
    daemonset_eviction_for_empty_nodes_enabled    = optional(string)
    daemonset_eviction_for_occupied_nodes_enabled = optional(string)
    empty_bulk_delete_max                         = optional(string)
    expander                                      = optional(string)
    ignore_daemonsets_utilization_enabled         = optional(string)
    max_graceful_termination_sec                  = optional(string)
    max_node_provisioning_time                    = optional(string)
    max_unready_nodes                             = optional(string)
    max_unready_percentage                        = optional(string)
    new_pod_scale_up_delay                        = optional(string)
    scale_down_delay_after_add                    = optional(string)
    scale_down_delay_after_delete                 = optional(string)
    scale_down_delay_after_failure                = optional(string)
    scale_down_unneeded                           = optional(string)
    scale_down_unready                            = optional(string)
    scale_down_utilization_threshold              = optional(string)
    scan_interval                                 = optional(string)
    skip_nodes_with_local_storage                 = optional(string)
    skip_nodes_with_system_pods                   = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_automatic_upgrade_channel"></a> [automatic\_upgrade\_channel](#input\_automatic\_upgrade\_channel)

Description: (Optional) The upgrade channel for this Kubernetes Cluster. Possible values are `patch`, `rapid`, `node-image` and `stable`. By default automatic-upgrades are turned off. Note that you cannot specify the patch version using `kubernetes_version` or `orchestrator_version` when using the `patch` upgrade channel. See [the documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/auto-upgrade-cluster) for more information

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_azure_active_directory_role_based_access_control"></a> [azure\_active\_directory\_role\_based\_access\_control](#input\_azure\_active\_directory\_role\_based\_access\_control)

Description: The Azure Active Directory role-based access control for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    tenant_id              = string
    admin_group_object_ids = list(string)
    azure_rbac_enabled     = optional(bool)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_azure_policy_enabled"></a> [azure\_policy\_enabled](#input\_azure\_policy\_enabled)

Description: Whether or not Azure Policy is enabled for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_cluster_suffix"></a> [cluster\_suffix](#input\_cluster\_suffix)

Description: Optional. The suffix to append to the Kubernetes cluster name if create\_before\_destroy is set to true on the nodepools.

Type: `string`

Default: `""`

### <a name="input_cluster_timeouts"></a> [cluster\_timeouts](#input\_cluster\_timeouts)

Description: - `create` - (Defaults to 90 minutes) Used when creating the Kubernetes Cluster.
- `delete` - (Defaults to 90 minutes) Used when deleting the Kubernetes Cluster.
- `read` - (Defaults to 5 minutes) Used when retrieving the Kubernetes Cluster.
- `update` - (Defaults to 90 minutes) Used when updating the Kubernetes Cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    create = optional(string)
    delete = optional(string)
    read   = optional(string)
    update = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_confidential_computing"></a> [confidential\_computing](#input\_confidential\_computing)

Description: - `sgx_quote_helper_enabled` - (Required) Should the SGX quote helper be enabled?

Type:

```hcl
object({
    sgx_quote_helper_enabled = bool
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_cost_analysis_enabled"></a> [cost\_analysis\_enabled](#input\_cost\_analysis\_enabled)

Description: Whether or not cost analysis is enabled for the Kubernetes cluster. SKU must be Standard or Premium.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_create_agentpools_before_destroy"></a> [create\_agentpools\_before\_destroy](#input\_create\_agentpools\_before\_destroy)

Description: Whether or not to create node pools before destroying the old ones. This is the opposite of the default behavior. Set this to true if zero downtime is required during nodepool redeployments such as changes to snapshot\_id.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_default_agent_pool"></a> [default\_agent\_pool](#input\_default\_agent\_pool)

Description: Configuration block for the default agent pool of the Kubernetes cluster.  
See `var.agent_pools` for details on the available options.

Note that:
- The `os_type` and `mode` options are not available here and are automatically set to `Linux` and `System` respectively.
- The default node count (`count_of`) is set to `3` if not specified.
- The default name is set to `systempool` if not specified.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    availability_zones            = optional(list(string))
    capacity_reservation_group_id = optional(string)
    count_of                      = optional(number, 3)
    creation_data = optional(object({
      source_resource_id = optional(string)
    }))
    enable_auto_scaling       = optional(bool)
    enable_encryption_at_host = optional(bool)
    enable_fips               = optional(bool)
    enable_node_public_ip     = optional(bool)
    enable_ultra_ssd          = optional(bool)
    gateway_profile = optional(object({
      public_ip_prefix_size = optional(number)
    }))
    gpu_instance_profile = optional(string)
    gpu_profile = optional(object({
      driver = optional(string)
    }))
    host_group_id = optional(string)
    kubelet_config = optional(object({
      allowed_unsafe_sysctls    = optional(list(string))
      container_log_max_files   = optional(number)
      container_log_max_size_mb = optional(number)
      cpu_cfs_quota             = optional(bool)
      cpu_cfs_quota_period      = optional(string)
      cpu_manager_policy        = optional(string)
      fail_swap_on              = optional(bool)
      image_gc_high_threshold   = optional(number)
      image_gc_low_threshold    = optional(number)
      pod_max_pids              = optional(number)
      topology_manager_policy   = optional(string)
    }))
    kubelet_disk_type = optional(string)
    linux_os_config = optional(object({
      swap_file_size_mb = optional(number)
      sysctls = optional(object({
        fs_aio_max_nr                      = optional(number)
        fs_file_max                        = optional(number)
        fs_inotify_max_user_watches        = optional(number)
        fs_nr_open                         = optional(number)
        kernel_threads_max                 = optional(number)
        net_core_netdev_max_backlog        = optional(number)
        net_core_optmem_max                = optional(number)
        net_core_rmem_default              = optional(number)
        net_core_rmem_max                  = optional(number)
        net_core_somaxconn                 = optional(number)
        net_core_wmem_default              = optional(number)
        net_core_wmem_max                  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_ip_local_port_range       = optional(string)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh1  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh2  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_neigh_default_gc_thresh3  = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_fin_timeout           = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_probes      = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_keepalive_time        = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_max_syn_backlog       = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_max_tw_buckets        = optional(number)
        net_ipv4_tcp_tw_reuse              = optional(bool)
        net_ipv4_tcpkeepalive_intvl        = optional(number)
        net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_buckets = optional(number)
        net_netfilter_nf_conntrack_max     = optional(number)
        vm_max_map_count                   = optional(number)
        vm_swappiness                      = optional(number)
        vm_vfs_cache_pressure              = optional(number)
      }))
      transparent_huge_page_defrag  = optional(string)
      transparent_huge_page_enabled = optional(string)
    }))
    local_dns_profile = optional(object({
      kube_dns_overrides = optional(map(object({
        cache_duration_in_seconds       = optional(number)
        forward_destination             = optional(string)
        forward_policy                  = optional(string)
        max_concurrent                  = optional(number)
        protocol                        = optional(string)
        query_logging                   = optional(string)
        serve_stale                     = optional(string)
        serve_stale_duration_in_seconds = optional(number)
      })))
      vnet_dns_overrides = optional(map(object({
        cache_duration_in_seconds       = optional(number)
        forward_destination             = optional(string)
        forward_policy                  = optional(string)
        max_concurrent                  = optional(number)
        protocol                        = optional(string)
        query_logging                   = optional(string)
        serve_stale                     = optional(string)
        serve_stale_duration_in_seconds = optional(number)
      })))
    }))
    max_count          = optional(number)
    max_pods           = optional(number)
    message_of_the_day = optional(string)
    min_count          = optional(number)
    mode               = optional(string)
    name               = optional(string, "systempool")
    network_profile = optional(object({
      allowed_host_ports = optional(list(object({
        port_end   = optional(number)
        port_start = optional(number)
        protocol   = optional(string)
      })))
      application_security_groups = optional(list(string))
      node_public_ip_tags = optional(list(object({
        ip_tag_type = optional(string)
        tag         = optional(string)
      })))
    }))
    node_labels              = optional(map(string))
    node_public_ip_prefix_id = optional(string)
    node_taints              = optional(list(string))
    orchestrator_version     = optional(string)
    os_disk_size_gb          = optional(number)
    os_disk_type             = optional(string)
    os_sku                   = optional(string)
    output_data_only         = optional(bool)
    pod_ip_allocation_mode   = optional(string)
    pod_subnet_id            = optional(string)
    power_state = optional(object({
      code = optional(string)
    }))
    proximity_placement_group_id = optional(string)
    scale_down_mode              = optional(string)
    scale_set_eviction_policy    = optional(string)
    scale_set_priority           = optional(string)
    security_profile = optional(object({
      enable_secure_boot = optional(bool)
      enable_vtpm        = optional(bool)
      ssh_access         = optional(string)
    }))
    spot_max_price = optional(number)
    status         = optional(object({}))
    tags           = optional(map(string))
    type           = optional(string)
    upgrade_settings = optional(object({
      drain_timeout_in_minutes      = optional(number)
      max_surge                     = optional(string)
      max_unavailable               = optional(string)
      node_soak_duration_in_minutes = optional(number)
      undrainable_node_behavior     = optional(string)
    }))
    virtual_machines_profile = optional(object({
      scale = optional(object({
        manual = optional(list(object({
          count = optional(number)
          size  = optional(string)
        })))
      }))
    }))
    vm_size        = optional(string)
    vnet_subnet_id = optional(string)
    windows_profile = optional(object({
      disable_outbound_nat = optional(bool)
    }))
    workload_runtime = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_default_nginx_controller"></a> [default\_nginx\_controller](#input\_default\_nginx\_controller)

Description: Specifies the ingress type for the default nginx ingress controller.

Type: `string`

Default: `"AnnotationControlled"`

### <a name="input_defender_log_analytics_workspace_id"></a> [defender\_log\_analytics\_workspace\_id](#input\_defender\_log\_analytics\_workspace\_id)

Description: The log analytics workspace ID for the Microsoft Defender.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_diagnostic_settings"></a> [diagnostic\_settings](#input\_diagnostic\_settings)

Description:   A map of diagnostic settings to create on the Key Vault. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `name` - (Optional) The name of the diagnostic setting. One will be generated if not set, however this will not be unique if you want to create multiple diagnostic setting resources.
- `log_categories` - (Optional) A set of log categories to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `[]`.
- `log_groups` - (Optional) A set of log groups to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `["allLogs"]`.
- `metric_categories` - (Optional) A set of metric categories to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `["AllMetrics"]`.
- `log_analytics_destination_type` - (Optional) The destination type for the diagnostic setting. Possible values are `Dedicated` and `AzureDiagnostics`. Defaults to `Dedicated`.
- `workspace_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the log analytics workspace to send logs and metrics to.
- `storage_account_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the storage account to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the event hub authorization rule to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_name` - (Optional) The name of the event hub. If none is specified, the default event hub will be selected.
- `marketplace_partner_resource_id` - (Optional) The full ARM resource ID of the Marketplace resource to which you would like to send Diagnostic LogsLogs.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name                                     = optional(string, null)
    log_categories                           = optional(set(string), [])
    log_groups                               = optional(set(string), ["allLogs"])
    metric_categories                        = optional(set(string), ["AllMetrics"])
    log_analytics_destination_type           = optional(string, "Dedicated")
    workspace_resource_id                    = optional(string, null)
    storage_account_resource_id              = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_name                           = optional(string, null)
    marketplace_partner_resource_id          = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_disable_local_accounts"></a> [disable\_local\_accounts](#input\_disable\_local\_accounts)

Description: Whether or not to disable local accounts on the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_disk_encryption_set_id"></a> [disk\_encryption\_set\_id](#input\_disk\_encryption\_set\_id)

Description: The disk encryption set resource ID for the Kubernetes cluster. The managed identity assigned to the cluster must have 'Contributor' role on the disk encryption set.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_dns_prefix"></a> [dns\_prefix](#input\_dns\_prefix)

Description: The DNS prefix specified when creating the managed cluster. If you do not specify one, a random prefix will be generated.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_dns_prefix_private_cluster"></a> [dns\_prefix\_private\_cluster](#input\_dns\_prefix\_private\_cluster)

Description: The Private Cluster DNS prefix specified when creating a private cluster. Required if deploying private cluster and providing a private dns zone id.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_enable_role_based_access_control"></a> [enable\_role\_based\_access\_control](#input\_enable\_role\_based\_access\_control)

Description: Whether or not to enable role based access control on the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_enable_telemetry"></a> [enable\_telemetry](#input\_enable\_telemetry)

Description: This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module.  
For more information see <https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo>.  
If it is set to false, then no telemetry will be collected.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_http_proxy_config"></a> [http\_proxy\_config](#input\_http\_proxy\_config)

Description: The HTTP proxy configuration for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    http_proxy  = optional(string)
    https_proxy = optional(string)
    no_proxy    = optional(list(string))
    trusted_ca  = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_image_cleaner_enabled"></a> [image\_cleaner\_enabled](#input\_image\_cleaner\_enabled)

Description: Whether or not the image cleaner is enabled for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_image_cleaner_interval_hours"></a> [image\_cleaner\_interval\_hours](#input\_image\_cleaner\_interval\_hours)

Description: (Optional) Specifies the interval in hours when images should be cleaned up. Defaults to `0`.

Type: `number`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_ingress_application_gateway"></a> [ingress\_application\_gateway](#input\_ingress\_application\_gateway)

Description: The ingress application gateway for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    gateway_id   = optional(string)
    gateway_name = optional(string)
    subnet_cidr  = optional(string)
    subnet_id    = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_key_management_service"></a> [key\_management\_service](#input\_key\_management\_service)

Description: The key management service for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    key_vault_key_id         = string
    key_vault_network_access = string
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_key_vault_secrets_provider"></a> [key\_vault\_secrets\_provider](#input\_key\_vault\_secrets\_provider)

Description: The key vault secrets provider for the Kubernetes cluster. Either rotation enabled or rotation interval must be specified.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    secret_rotation_enabled  = optional(bool)
    secret_rotation_interval = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_kubernetes_version"></a> [kubernetes\_version](#input\_kubernetes\_version)

Description: The version of Kubernetes to use for the managed cluster.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_linux_profile"></a> [linux\_profile](#input\_linux\_profile)

Description: The Linux profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    admin_username = string
    ssh_key        = string
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_local_account_disabled"></a> [local\_account\_disabled](#input\_local\_account\_disabled)

Description: Defaults to true. Whether or not the local account should be disabled on the Kubernetes cluster. Azure RBAC must be enabled.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_lock"></a> [lock](#input\_lock)

Description: Controls the Resource Lock configuration for this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `\"CanNotDelete\"` and `\"ReadOnly\"`.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    kind = string
    name = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_log_analytics_workspace_id"></a> [log\_analytics\_workspace\_id](#input\_log\_analytics\_workspace\_id)

Description: The Log Analytics Workspace Resource ID for container logging.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_maintenance_window"></a> [maintenance\_window](#input\_maintenance\_window)

Description: The maintenance window for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    allowed = object({
      day   = string
      hours = set(number)
    })
    not_allowed = object({
      start = string
      end   = string
    })
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_maintenance_window_auto_upgrade"></a> [maintenance\_window\_auto\_upgrade](#input\_maintenance\_window\_auto\_upgrade)

Description: values for maintenance window auto upgrade

Type:

```hcl
object({
    frequency    = string
    interval     = number
    duration     = number
    day_of_week  = optional(string)
    day_of_month = optional(number)
    week_index   = optional(string)
    start_time   = optional(string)
    utc_offset   = optional(string)
    start_date   = optional(string)
    not_allowed = optional(object({
      start = string
      end   = string
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_managed_identities"></a> [managed\_identities](#input\_managed\_identities)

Description: Controls the Managed Identity configuration on this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `system_assigned` - (Optional) Specifies if the System Assigned Managed Identity should be enabled.
- `user_assigned_resource_ids` - (Optional) Specifies a list of User Assigned Managed Identity resource IDs to be assigned to this resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    system_assigned            = optional(bool, false)
    user_assigned_resource_ids = optional(set(string), [])
  })
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_monitor_metrics"></a> [monitor\_metrics](#input\_monitor\_metrics)

Description: The monitor metrics for the Kubernetes cluster. Both required if enabling Prometheus

Type:

```hcl
object({
    annotations_allowed = optional(string)
    labels_allowed      = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_namespace"></a> [namespace](#input\_namespace)

Description: Map of instances for the submodule with the following attributes:

**enable\_telemetry**  
This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module. For more information see https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo.

**name**  
The name of the resource.

**annotations**  
The annotations of managed namespace.

**default\_network\_policy**  
Default network policy of the namespace, specifying ingress and egress rules.

- `egress` - Enum representing different network policy rules.
- `ingress` - Enum representing different network policy rules.

**delete\_policy**  
Delete options of a namespace.

**labels**  
The labels of managed namespace.

**tags**  
A mapping of tags to assign to the resource.

**adoption\_policy**  
Action if Kubernetes namespace with same name already exists.

**default\_resource\_quota**  
Resource quota for the namespace.

- `cpu_limit` - CPU limit of the namespace in one-thousandth CPU form. See [CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu) for more details.
- `cpu_request` - CPU request of the namespace in one-thousandth CPU form. See [CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu) for more details.
- `memory_limit` - Memory limit of the namespace in the power-of-two equivalents form: Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi, Mi, Ki. See [Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory) for more details.
- `memory_request` - Memory request of the namespace in the power-of-two equivalents form: Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi, Mi, Ki. See [Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory) for more details.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    adoption_policy = optional(string)
    annotations     = optional(map(string))
    default_network_policy = optional(object({
      egress  = optional(string)
      ingress = optional(string)
    }))
    default_resource_quota = optional(object({
      cpu_limit      = optional(string)
      cpu_request    = optional(string)
      memory_limit   = optional(string)
      memory_request = optional(string)
    }))
    delete_policy    = optional(string)
    enable_telemetry = optional(bool)
    labels           = optional(map(string))
    name             = string
    tags             = optional(map(string))
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_network_profile"></a> [network\_profile](#input\_network\_profile)

Description: The network profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    network_plugin      = optional(string)
    network_mode        = optional(string)
    network_policy      = optional(string)
    dns_service_ip      = optional(string)
    network_data_plane  = optional(string)
    network_plugin_mode = optional(string)
    outbound_type       = optional(string, "loadBalancer")
    pod_cidr            = optional(string)
    pod_cidrs           = optional(list(string))
    service_cidr        = optional(string)
    service_cidrs       = optional(list(string))
    ip_versions         = optional(list(string))
    load_balancer_sku   = optional(string)
    load_balancer_profile = optional(object({
      managed_outbound_ip_count   = optional(number)
      managed_outbound_ipv6_count = optional(number)
      outbound_ip_address_ids     = optional(list(string))
      outbound_ip_prefix_ids      = optional(list(string))
      outbound_ports_allocated    = optional(number)
      idle_timeout_in_minutes     = optional(number)
    }))
    nat_gateway_profile = optional(object({
      managed_outbound_ip_count = optional(number)
      idle_timeout_in_minutes   = optional(number)
    }))
  })
```

Default:

```json
{
  "network_plugin": "azure",
  "network_plugin_mode": "overlay",
  "network_policy": "azure"
}
```

### <a name="input_node_os_channel_upgrade"></a> [node\_os\_channel\_upgrade](#input\_node\_os\_channel\_upgrade)

Description: The node OS channel upgrade for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `string`

Default: `"NodeImage"`

### <a name="input_node_resource_group_name"></a> [node\_resource\_group\_name](#input\_node\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: The resource group name for the node pool.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_oidc_issuer_enabled"></a> [oidc\_issuer\_enabled](#input\_oidc\_issuer\_enabled)

Description: Whether or not the OIDC issuer is enabled for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_oms_agent"></a> [oms\_agent](#input\_oms\_agent)

Description: The OMS agent configuration for the Kubernetes cluster. Uses `var.log_analytics_workspace_id` for the Log Analytics Workspace. Omit or set to `null` to disable.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    msi_auth_for_monitoring_enabled = optional(bool)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_onboard_alerts"></a> [onboard\_alerts](#input\_onboard\_alerts)

Description: Whether to enable recommended alerts. Set to false to disable alerts even if monitoring is enabled and alert\_email is provided.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_onboard_monitoring"></a> [onboard\_monitoring](#input\_onboard\_monitoring)

Description: Whether to enable monitoring resources. Set to false to disable monitoring even if workspace IDs are provided.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_private_endpoints"></a> [private\_endpoints](#input\_private\_endpoints)

Description:   A map of private endpoints to create on the Key Vault. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

  - `name` - (Optional) The name of the private endpoint. One will be generated if not set.
  - `role_assignments` - (Optional) A map of role assignments to create on the private endpoint. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time. See `var.role_assignments` for more information.
    - `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
    - `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
    - `description` - (Optional) The description of the role assignment.
    - `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - (Optional) If set to true, skips the Azure Active Directory check for the service principal in the tenant. Defaults to false.
    - `condition` - (Optional) The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
    - `condition_version` - (Optional) The version of the condition syntax. Leave as `null` if you are not using a condition, if you are then valid values are '2.0'.
    - `delegated_managed_identity_resource_id` - (Optional) The delegated Azure Resource Id which contains a Managed Identity. Changing this forces a new resource to be created. This field is only used in cross-tenant scenario.
    - `principal_type` - (Optional) The type of the `principal_id`. Possible values are `User`, `Group` and `ServicePrincipal`. It is necessary to explicitly set this attribute when creating role assignments if the principal creating the assignment is constrained by ABAC rules that filters on the PrincipalType attribute.
  - `lock` - (Optional) The lock level to apply to the private endpoint. Default is `None`. Possible values are `None`, `CanNotDelete`, and `ReadOnly`.
    - `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `\"CanNotDelete\"` and `\"ReadOnly\"`.
    - `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.
  - `tags` - (Optional) A mapping of tags to assign to the private endpoint.
  - `subnet_resource_id` - The resource ID of the subnet to deploy the private endpoint in.
  - `subresource_name` - The name of the sub resource for the private endpoint.
  - `private_dns_zone_group_name` - (Optional) The name of the private DNS zone group. One will be generated if not set.
  - `private_dns_zone_resource_ids` - (Optional) A set of resource IDs of private DNS zones to associate with the private endpoint. If not set, no zone groups will be created and the private endpoint will not be associated with any private DNS zones. DNS records must be managed external to this module.
  - `application_security_group_resource_ids` - (Optional) A map of resource IDs of application security groups to associate with the private endpoint. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.
  - `private_service_connection_name` - (Optional) The name of the private service connection. One will be generated if not set.
  - `network_interface_name` - (Optional) The name of the network interface. One will be generated if not set.
  - `location` - (Optional) The Azure location where the resources will be deployed. Defaults to the location of the resource group.
  - `resource_group_name` - (Optional) The resource group where the resources will be deployed. Defaults to the resource group of the Key Vault.
  - `ip_configurations` - (Optional) A map of IP configurations to create on the private endpoint. If not specified the platform will create one. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.
    - `name` - The name of the IP configuration.
    - `private_ip_address` - The private IP address of the IP configuration.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name = optional(string, null)
    role_assignments = optional(map(object({
      role_definition_id_or_name             = string
      principal_id                           = string
      description                            = optional(string, null)
      skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
      condition                              = optional(string, null)
      condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
      delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
      principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
    })), {})
    lock = optional(object({
      kind = string
      name = optional(string, null)
    }), null)
    tags                                    = optional(map(string), null)
    subnet_resource_id                      = string
    subresource_name                        = string # NOTE: `subresource_name` can be excluded if the resource does not support multiple sub resource types (e.g. storage account supports blob, queue, etc)
    private_dns_zone_group_name             = optional(string, "default")
    private_dns_zone_resource_ids           = optional(set(string), [])
    application_security_group_associations = optional(map(string), {})
    private_service_connection_name         = optional(string, null)
    network_interface_name                  = optional(string, null)
    location                                = optional(string, null)
    resource_group_name                     = optional(string, null)
    ip_configurations = optional(map(object({
      name               = string
      private_ip_address = string
    })), {})
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_private_endpoints_manage_dns_zone_group"></a> [private\_endpoints\_manage\_dns\_zone\_group](#input\_private\_endpoints\_manage\_dns\_zone\_group)

Description: Whether to manage private DNS zone groups with this module. If set to false, you must manage private DNS zone groups externally, e.g. using Azure Policy.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_prometheus_workspace_id"></a> [prometheus\_workspace\_id](#input\_prometheus\_workspace\_id)

Description: The monitor workspace resource ID for managed Prometheus.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_role_assignments"></a> [role\_assignments](#input\_role\_assignments)

Description:   A map of role assignments to create on the <RESOURCE>. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

  - `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
  - `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
  - `description` - (Optional) The description of the role assignment.
  - `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - (Optional) If set to true, skips the Azure Active Directory check for the service principal in the tenant. Defaults to false.
  - `condition` - (Optional) The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
  - `condition_version` - (Optional) The version of the condition syntax. Leave as `null` if you are not using a condition, if you are then valid values are '2.0'.
  - `delegated_managed_identity_resource_id` - (Optional) The delegated Azure Resource Id which contains a Managed Identity. Changing this forces a new resource to be created. This field is only used in cross-tenant scenario.
  - `principal_type` - (Optional) The type of the `principal_id`. Possible values are `User`, `Group` and `ServicePrincipal`. It is necessary to explicitly set this attribute when creating role assignments if the principal creating the assignment is constrained by ABAC rules that filters on the PrincipalType attribute.

  > Note: only set `skip_service_principal_aad_check` to true if you are assigning a role to a service principal.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    role_definition_id_or_name             = string
    principal_id                           = string
    description                            = optional(string, null)
    skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
    condition                              = optional(string, null)
    condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
    delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_service_mesh_profile"></a> [service\_mesh\_profile](#input\_service\_mesh\_profile)

Description: The service mesh profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    mode = string
    istio = optional(object({
      certificateAuthority = optional(object({
        plugin = optional(object({
          certChainObjectName = optional(string)
          certObjectName      = optional(string)
          keyObjectName       = optional(string)
          keyVaultId          = optional(string)
          rootCertObjectName  = optional(string)
        }))
      }))
      components = optional(object({
        egressGateways = optional(object({
          enabled                  = bool
          gatewayConfigurationName = optional(string)
          name                     = optional(string)
          namespace                = optional(string)
        }))
        ingressGateways = optional(object({
          enabled = bool
          mode    = optional(string)
        }))
      }))
      revisions = optional(list(string))
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_sku"></a> [sku](#input\_sku)

Description: The SKU configuration for the cluster, including name and tier.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    name = string
    tier = string
  })
```

Default:

```json
{
  "name": "Base",
  "tier": "Standard"
}
```

### <a name="input_storage_profile"></a> [storage\_profile](#input\_storage\_profile)

Description: Optional. The storage profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    blob_driver_enabled         = optional(bool),
    disk_driver_enabled         = optional(bool),
    file_driver_enabled         = optional(bool),
    snapshot_controller_enabled = optional(bool)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_support_plan"></a> [support\_plan](#input\_support\_plan)

Description: The support plan for the Kubernetes cluster. Defaults to KubernetesOfficial.

Type: `string`

Default: `"KubernetesOfficial"`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags of the resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_upgrade_override"></a> [upgrade\_override](#input\_upgrade\_override)

Description: (Optional) The upgrade override for the Kubernetes cluster. Once set, this block cannot be removed from the configuration. This is used to force an upgrade of the cluster even if it is not required. The `effective_until` field is used to specify the date until which the override is effective.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    force_upgrade_enabled = bool
    effective_until       = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_web_app_routing_dns_zone_ids"></a> [web\_app\_routing\_dns\_zone\_ids](#input\_web\_app\_routing\_dns\_zone\_ids)

Description: The web app routing DNS zone IDs for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `list(string)`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_windows_profile"></a> [windows\_profile](#input\_windows\_profile)

Description: The Windows profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    admin_username    = string
    license           = optional(string)
    csi_proxy_enabled = optional(bool, false)
    gmsa = optional(object({
      root_domain = string
      dns_server  = string
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_windows_profile_password"></a> [windows\_profile\_password](#input\_windows\_profile\_password)

Description: (Optional) The Admin Password for Windows VMs. Length must be between 14 and 123 characters.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_windows_profile_password_version"></a> [windows\_profile\_password\_version](#input\_windows\_profile\_password\_version)

Description: (Optional) The version of the Admin Password for Windows VM.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_workload_autoscaler_profile"></a> [workload\_autoscaler\_profile](#input\_workload\_autoscaler\_profile)

Description: The workload autoscaler profile for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    keda_enabled = optional(bool)
    vpa_enabled  = optional(bool)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_workload_identity_enabled"></a> [workload\_identity\_enabled](#input\_workload\_identity\_enabled)

Description: Whether or not workload identity is enabled for the Kubernetes cluster.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_aci_connector_object_id"></a> [aci\_connector\_object\_id](#output\_aci\_connector\_object\_id)

Description: (Not directly available via azapi without extra GET)

### <a name="output_agentpool_resource_ids"></a> [agentpool\_resource\_ids](#output\_agentpool\_resource\_ids)

Description: A map of nodepool keys to resource ids.

### <a name="output_cluster_ca_certificate"></a> [cluster\_ca\_certificate](#output\_cluster\_ca\_certificate)

Description: Base64 cluster CA certificate from user kubeconfig.

### <a name="output_host"></a> [host](#output\_host)

Description: API server host from user kubeconfig.

### <a name="output_ingress_app_object_id"></a> [ingress\_app\_object\_id](#output\_ingress\_app\_object\_id)

Description: Ingress Application identity object id (not currently extracted).

### <a name="output_key_vault_secrets_provider_object_id"></a> [key\_vault\_secrets\_provider\_object\_id](#output\_key\_vault\_secrets\_provider\_object\_id)

Description: Key vault secrets provider identity object id (not currently extracted).

### <a name="output_kube_admin_config"></a> [kube\_admin\_config](#output\_kube\_admin\_config)

Description: Admin kubeconfig raw YAML (sensitive).

### <a name="output_kube_config"></a> [kube\_config](#output\_kube\_config)

Description: User kubeconfig raw YAML (sensitive).

### <a name="output_kubelet_identity_id"></a> [kubelet\_identity\_id](#output\_kubelet\_identity\_id)

Description: Kubelet identity object id (not currently extracted).

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: Name of the Kubernetes cluster.

### <a name="output_namespace_resource_ids"></a> [namespace\_resource\_ids](#output\_namespace\_resource\_ids)

Description: A map of namespace keys to resource ids.

### <a name="output_node_resource_group_id"></a> [node\_resource\_group\_id](#output\_node\_resource\_group\_id)

Description: Node resource group name not exported; manual lookup required.

### <a name="output_node_resource_group_name"></a> [node\_resource\_group\_name](#output\_node\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: Name of the automatically created node resource group.

### <a name="output_oidc_issuer_url"></a> [oidc\_issuer\_url](#output\_oidc\_issuer\_url)

Description: OIDC issuer URL from GET export values.

### <a name="output_private_endpoints"></a> [private\_endpoints](#output\_private\_endpoints)

Description:   A map of the private endpoints created.

### <a name="output_public_fqdn"></a> [public\_fqdn](#output\_public\_fqdn)

Description: Returns .fqdn when both private\_cluster\_enabled and private\_cluster\_public\_fqdn\_enabled are true, otherwise null

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: Resource ID of the Kubernetes cluster.

### <a name="output_user_assigned_identity_client_ids"></a> [user\_assigned\_identity\_client\_ids](#output\_user\_assigned\_identity\_client\_ids)

Description: Map of identity profile keys to clientIds.

### <a name="output_user_assigned_identity_object_ids"></a> [user\_assigned\_identity\_object\_ids](#output\_user\_assigned\_identity\_object\_ids)

Description: Map of identity profile keys to principalIds.

### <a name="output_web_app_routing_client_id"></a> [web\_app\_routing\_client\_id](#output\_web\_app\_routing\_client\_id)

Description: The object ID of the web app routing identity

### <a name="output_web_app_routing_object_id"></a> [web\_app\_routing\_object\_id](#output\_web\_app\_routing\_object\_id)

Description: Web app routing identity object id (not currently extracted).

## Modules

The following Modules are called:

### <a name="module_alerting"></a> [alerting](#module\_alerting)

Source: ./modules/alerting

Version:

### <a name="module_default_agent_pool"></a> [default\_agent\_pool](#module\_default\_agent\_pool)

Source: ./modules/agentpool

Version:

### <a name="module_maintenance_auto_upgrade"></a> [maintenance\_auto\_upgrade](#module\_maintenance\_auto\_upgrade)

Source: ./modules/maintenanceconfiguration

Version:

### <a name="module_monitoring"></a> [monitoring](#module\_monitoring)

Source: ./modules/monitoring

Version:

### <a name="module_namespace"></a> [namespace](#module\_namespace)

Source: ./modules/namespace

Version:

### <a name="module_nodepools"></a> [nodepools](#module\_nodepools)

Source: ./modules/agentpool

Version:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->